---
title: The shadows move
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*vaxqB2abUj6WRSSk_hzBMQ.jpeg
  attribution: https://unsplash.com/@hammy
  caption: Photo by Joshua Gresham
---

In the house where I grew up I had the front bedroom, my sister the back; she
looked out to the backyard, I to the front. The house itself was set on a hill,
and the yard sloped down toward the street. My child’s imagination spurred on
the sense of being high in a tower, surveying the land. The yard was largely
grass with one lone oak—a thick one, standing near to 80 feet tall—that
scattered shade over much of the grass below it. On the perimeter of the yard
stood more trees, and an entire forest beyond. In the warm New England summers
this yard saw, over the years, heated games of soccer and badminton, baseball
catches with Dad, manic games of capture the flag with the full band of cousins,
and laps around the lawn with the mower, my weekly chore.

On nights when the moon rose bright and pearly white, long, tangled shadows
rained down across the grass. Paired with a sometimes gentle, sometimes gusting
wind, the shadows seemed to my young eyes like the gnarled tentacles of alien
creatures, crawling out from the woods toward the house. On more nights than one
did the snapping of twigs and rustling of underbrush steal from me sleep as I
slipped from my bed to the window, kneeling on the plush carpet and holding my
breath with anticipation as I watched the edge of the yard. Crickets crescendoed
to deafening volumes.

I was convinced that dangerous criminals lurked just out of sight, cloaked in
shadow and waiting patiently for each member of the house to fall asleep. I,
alert in my watchtower, nervously scanned for them, ready to raise the alarm. Of
course I never did see anybody, or indeed any*thing*. The distant footfalls were
undoubtedly deer, gingerly passing through on their nightly routes. The shadows,
tainted by nightmarish fantasies, were in reality beautiful, intricate works of
art such as only nature can generate.

In a city, noises at night portend far less threatening circumstances. A loud
motorcycle passing is annoying but understood. Footfalls on concrete: humans.
The distant siren, an easily identifiable racket. There is less imagination
needed to translate the din of a metropolis.

Camping, conversely, still provides us this opportunity to let curiosity run
free. Is the _huff_ of air in the distance a bear or merely a raccoon? Are those
animal footsteps forty feet away or four? It seems to me that being outdoors
activates our imagination in ways that were common during childhood. And since
many of us, at least in cities, live largely indoor existences, we discover new
things. Mundane tasks like heating water for oatmeal feel substantial and
worthwhile.

It’s frightening to consider that the removal of nature from our typical
existence—waking up in a home, driving to work, eating at the office, driving
back home, sleeping in a bed—can lead to the stagnation of a unique and crucial
part of our creative imaginations.
