---
title: He ran into the room panting
layout: journal
image:
  image: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*9JNJwGlzSE_-5ArI_tEsZg.png
  attribution: https://unsplash.com/jaywennington
  caption: Photo by Jay Wennington
---

He ran into the room panting and I could tell right off he wasn’t happy. I was
lying on the bed with my laptop propped against my knees and there was a stain
on my sweatshirt from eating ice cream earlier when I dislodged a mound of
cookie dough and it slid from the spoon like a clumsy ice skater, landing near
but not quite inside the pocket of my hoody. I used the spoon and my fingers to
pick it back up and there was only one or two pieces of fuzz stuck to the
outside so I ate it. He’d scowled, and even then I could tell he was in a foul
mood, so it wasn’t entirely a surprise when he came in with a huff, eyes tucked
up under his brows and his hands awkwardly held at his sides. He paced once,
twice, again, and then looked right into my face and I could almost feel the
prick of daggers coming out of his eyes.

“You _promised_ you would write tonight.”

Another lap around the perimeter of the room. “You promised”, he repeated,
quieter this time, perhaps in case I’d confused the word earlier for a similar
sounding word like _psalmist_ or the thousands of other words that surely rhyme
with _promised_ but it’s not like I have a thesaurus just sitting around. He
looked up again but quickly away like my hollow corneas bore a hunk of burning
magnesium.

I thought he was going storm back out, so lost for words he was, but then he
looked directly at you. You were there, sitting in the corner listening. And I
watched as the realization slowly broke across your face, as you came to
understand. You’re just the reader. You’re just a reader, and I’m the writer,
but he’s the writer, too. And I saw the hurt in your eyes when the last puzzle
piece dropped into place and you realized you’d just read three paragraphs that
I wrote as an excuse for writing something substantive tonight. And then he did
storm out, and I followed, and you were there alone, but at least the piece was
over.
