---
title: Rich, but in what?
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*1N2EsB9i-hqgfxinLA5GxA.png
---

The fantastical fruit pictured above is _rambutan_, but in Bali I was introduced
to it as simply: hairy fruit; in Indonesian, the word _rambut_ translates
literally to “hair”. These beautiful, odd creatures grew in quantity at my first
homestay in the Balinese village of Bresela. Digging a nail into the soft
exterior and pulling out the interior reveals a fruit similar in appearance and
taste to lychee: soft, gelatinous, sweet, delectable. For the three days I spent
in Bresela, I ate rambutan twice daily, pulled fresh from the tree.

At this same home I got to try no less than five new types of fruit. Not just
fruits that I’d never had the opportunity to try, but fruits I’d never even
heard of: [mangosteen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Purple_mangosteen), [snake
fruit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salak),
[durian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Durian), [dragon
fruit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pitaya). Not to mention more common items
like bananas, coconuts, mangos, guava. All of which grew on a plot of land not
more than an acre large.

All of this in a place where a large serving of food at a restaurant runs about
$2 USD. Where you can rent an entire villa for around $20/night. Where residents
barely stand a chance of leaving the island, even for a vacation, because the
currency is so weak. A place that—were you not aware of the richness of culture,
the soundness of spirit, the closeness of communities—might be even be called
“poor”. As a westerner coming to Bali, it is easy to feel rich when you can pay
$40/night for a high-end hotel 40 feet from a beautiful white sand beach.

But to those for whom Bali would be considered “poor”—and by comparison you
“rich”—I would ask this: what exactly are you rich _in_?
