---
title: Red
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*5DISG5_ZIeAFEgnLcjQvQA.png
  attribution: https://www.flickr.com/photos/hisgett/5781495065/
  caption: Original photo by Tony Hisgett
---

The things she owned were red. All shades, pastel to fiery and deep maroons. The
front door opened on a room painted white, accented solely by these things.
Entering this room gives one an altogether overwhelming sense of having lost
their ability to see colors, save for red.

On the entrance table, three roses were in full bloom, each in its own glass
vase and spread at equal intervals horizontally across the table. A frame hung
above displayed a stunning photograph, a field of red poppies lying under an
ashen grey sky. The room beyond was sparsely, though immaculately decorated. A
set of white couches ringed a blood red area rug. A bookshelf along the wall was
full, room for not a single book more, and each red spine organized in ascending
height.

The doorway visible at the end of the flat’s hallway, in sharp contrast, was
painted an inky, matte black. Each door in the hall — to the bathroom, a closet,
guest bedroom, a small office — was open save for this one, and anybody who
glimpsed the doorway from the den was inextricably drawn to it. For one bold
enough to turn the knob on that haunting portal, what lay beyond the threshold
was a breathtaking experience. The interior of the room was in turn painted the
same flat black and contained no windows. The light that streamed in from the
hall was seemingly devoured by the darkness, the opposite wall reflecting
nothing. And when the door softly latched behind you, you too became one with
the void therein.

As your eyes strained to see even your own hands, you seemed to sense, if not
see, tiny pin pricks of light dancing around you. The spots of luminescence
would seem voluminous rather than mere projections on the walls, and the longer
you stood in the stillness, the greater chance you’d have in realizing that
these particles seemed to sense _you_ as well, for their soft glow would light
and fade in time with your heartbeat and vary in size in proximity to the warmth
of your skin, such that as you moved through the space you gained the sense of
somehow swimming in the air. The only way to navigate this room was to first
find a wall and then feel your way about with your hand, and it’s in this manner
that you would first drag your fingers across a chain, hidden until now by the
darkness. The links of the chain feel heavy and authoritarian, meant to restrain
rather than merely providing dramatic effect. At first it seems an illusion, but
when you firmly grasp the chain again, the length of it glows a soft white, and
your eyes trace it up the wall to a thick ring, affixed in place by four
square-headed bolts. With your eyes toward the ceiling, your gaze would be
stolen by the glow of another ring. And then another, and five more spaced
around the perimeter, the same weighty restraint hanging from each, the chains
all in turn pulsing with that pearly white glow.

I am standing outside. I followed you in. You’ll forgive me, I was just curious.
I’m standing outside, and I’ve been here before, so I know what happens next.
I’m absentmindedly leafing through her mail on the kitchen table, one of the
only signs of day-to-day living present in her home. I shuffle past a speaking
request for a conference on nanotechnology and a letter of congratulations from
M.I.T., awarding an honorary degree in nuclear science. The third piece of mail
is an invitation to a bondage party, and I couldn’t help but smile at the
contrast.

It was just as I dropped the stack of paper back on the table that I heard the
heavy, metallic jingle of chain emanate from the hallway. I heard the locking
mechanism of the black door activate with a bassy, mechanical thunk, and the
outline of a single red rose faded into life on the exterior.
