---
title: Are we candles?
layout: journal
---

It was just after 4am when I turned the light off. This was last night, and as I
consciously attempted to quiet my brain, I lay on my stomach and willed myself
to sleep. My third consecutive day spent, in its entirety, at work. My eyes
fluttered shut and I felt thankful that I’d get a full five hours of sleep. Now
it’s nearing 1am, just about 24 hours later, and I’m overeagerly writing in
anticipation of the sleep — a glorious 8 hours or more tonight — that will
follow.

Last night, in the moments between my eyes closing and subsequently swimming out
of consciousness, I realized I hadn’t written. I talked myself out of my initial
reaction — to haul myself out of bed and sit and write, anything — in part from
exhaustion and in part because I remembered what a friend wrote, just the
previous day, with regard to my writing intention: you can break your own rule.
She’s right. And I did. Yesterday was the first day in 2016 that I didn’t write
something, whether publicly or in journal format.

This week is a “crunch week” at work. If you don’t know this term, ask anybody
who works in technology, or in video games, or for a creative agency, and
they’ll be adequately, if not intimately, familiar. Crunch, in the language of
startups, roughly translates to “you don’t stop working on The Thing until The
Thing is done”. Many companies hope to avoid periods like this, but nearly all
realize their occasional necessity if you’re working against aggressive
deadlines or moving quickly. So when the time does come, you steel yourself
against the emotional stress and push until your work pays off.

What I hate the most about crunching is how much I enjoy it. Every time I
begrudgingly admit to friends that I’m leaving the bar to go back to work — an
admittance that is always met with confusion, especially after 9pm — the
masochist in me steeples his fingers in front of his chest and laughs an evil,
toothy laugh. Each time I feel the rush of energy that accompanies settling in
for a long night of work, music blasting and takeout food already en route, I
wonder _why_ I enjoy this. I wonder whether I’ll always enjoy this, or if my
tolerance for such sustained exertion knows a limit that I won’t be able to
foresee.

I wonder if we’re candles, each off us, burning down our passions. I wonder
whether someday that flame will go out and I’ll wish I’d used the fire to light
up another while I had the chance.
