---
title: Saying No to God
layout: journal
---

On Friday I saw _Spotlight_, a film that recently won Best Picture at the
Oscars. The film portrays an investigative journalism team at The Boston Globe
that in 2002 published evidence of a major child abuse scandal amongst Roman
Catholic priests in the Boston area. The team sought to expose flaws in the
“entire system” of Roman Catholicism. As if to underscore the extent of the
problem, the film ends with a note that Cardinal Bernard Law — a man directly
responsible for covering up sexual abuse by dozens of priests — though he
initially resigned from his role in Boston, was later given a higher position of
power in Rome. In the years since _Spotlight_’s report, the Church has responded
saying that they took the findings as a chance for large-scale changes in the
organization, and that they’ve now “reformed”.

This could be an essay about my disdain for religion, but it won’t be, because I
think that religion holds very real value for an astounding number of people.
Rather, it is the _marketing_ of religion that I so despise. And because of
this, I clung to a particular quote from the film.

In a scene where the _Spotlight_ team is interviewing their first victim of
child abuse, a man who heads an organization called the _Survivors Network of
those Abused by Priests_ says “When you’re a poor kid from a poor family, and a
priest pays attention to you, it’s a big deal. How do you say no to God?” This
singular sentiment reveals the authoritative nature that some religions play in
its worshiper’s lives, and it’s this angle — the political agenda of religion —
that truly turns me off from it.

In high school, a close friend and I decided to tell our parents, each in our
own way, that we did not want to believe in a God. We’d both been raised with
religion, each confirmed in our churches — he Protestant, I Catholic. Each of us
had a large extended family for which religion was important. This discussion,
that of publicly outing ourselves as non-believers, felt weighty at the time. I
don’t particularly recall the conversation that occurred with my parents, but
what I do remember is the response of my friend’s mother. Upon hearing her son
disavow the family’s religion, she asked him “but don’t you want to raise your
kids with good moral values?” I am surely misquoting her all these years later,
but the gist of her sentiment remains: religion is the only way to teach your
offspring how to be upstanding humans.

What I dislike most about this attitude (aside from it being a logical fallacy
of the most poisonous kind) is that it lends such little faith to humans of
their own accord. It suggests that in the absence of religion, we would _never_
possess the capability to know right from wrong, and to teach our children the
same. From the very outset, it is a recommendation that you not think for
yourself, but take the centuries old written word of the Bible as indisputable
fact, and I simply could not, and can not, accept that as healthy for humans.
