---
title: Qualifying a life
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*ZhM1UuysvQshW3qvhUK9xQ.jpeg
  attribution: https://unsplash.com/@grakozy
  caption: Photo by Greg Rakozy
---

I was reminded tonight that I have lived in San Francisco for three years.
Years, it feels, that have escaped me as does a word on the tip of your tongue:
you can vaguely describe the word, and you can remember how it feels to say the
word, even some times that you have used the word, but the fuller meaning is
lost until you recall the specific term and its context. It seems that it is
easy to quantify a life (i.e. “I have been here three years”), but much harder
to qualify it. How do you explain _a year_? How did you change in 2015? A full
365 days passed and how many do you remember? We tend to remember the sad
moments and some of the happier ones, but the mundane living is lost to time.

One reason I started this effort to write every day was to encourage myself to
better acknowledge passing time through daily reflection, whatever form that may
take. Fiction, memories, poems… specifics of the medium aside, sitting down to
write anything mandates that you draw inspiration from the daily events of your
life. And through that practice we sometimes realize that the mundane memories
of our days are the ones that set in motion larger changes that might take years
to manifest in our lives. If these unremarkable moments are not preserved
somehow, we end up mystified as to how we ever got from one state of being to
another.

This year I’d like to dedicate some of my daily writing to examining my life
year by year and trying to identify the events, monumentally large or
infinitesimally little, that have cumulatively made me _me_.
