---
title: The world, indeed, is small
layout: journal
---

For years I’ve kept a log of “small world” occurrences. These are the events you
witness that seem unlikely to the point of absurdity. Connections between
disparate people in your life, one-in-a-million-trillion chance circumstances. I
started this list after the following occurrence.

It was Sunday, the weekend drawing to a close. I was at a campground called June
Norcross Webster, a popular spot during my years in Boy Scouts. I was 16, maybe
17, and had recently won a teenage right of passage: I passed my driving test.
As such, I’d driven myself to the campout, 40 minutes northeast across
Connecticut, from Marlborough to Ashford.

As our crew packed our gear into cars and prepared to head out, my friend Ben
asked me if I would mind giving him a ride. His house was on my route home. I
hesitated.

Earlier that year, a law had been passed in Connecticut mandating that new
drivers, for their first six months on the road, drive only with similarly
licensed passengers, 20 years and older. Ben, a classmate of mine, was neither.
After some thought, during which I weighed the balance of a solid favor for a
friend and the potential dire consequences of being found out, I said yes. The
likelihood of discovery, I thought, was next to zero.

I dropped Ben at his house and arrived back at mine without incident.

Later that evening, my Dad walks into my room. In my memory, I’m laying on my
bed, finishing homework that will be due the next morning.

_“So I heard you drove Ben Tulman home today.”_

He spoke with a confidence that dared me to challenge him. But I didn’t, because
only a feat of mind reading could have betrayed my secret. Aghast, I admitted to
my wrongdoing and my use of the car was promptly revoked for two weeks. But
before he left me to sulk in my guilt, I needed to understand how this had
happened.

_“How… how did you know that?”_

**Hold on to your butts.** This one gets weird.

Let us say that there are two brothers: Craig, who lives in Pennsylvania, and
Bruce, who lives in Vermont. Craig makes wind chimes out of old silverware. To
this end, he occasionally travels around New England, selling his crafts at
markets. On this particular weekend, he was at just such a craft fair in
Connecticut.

Ben, arriving home mid-afternoon, calls his mother to inform her that he is
safely home. _“My buddy Mike Fowler drove me home”_,\* \*he’d have said.
Innocuous, innocent.

Ben’s mother, on a warm, pleasant Sunday, is perusing a craft fair in
Connecticut when she walks upon a man selling wind chimes made from old
silverware. _“Afternoon, I’m Craig”_, the man behind the table might have said
to her, and in that moment a gear would have clicked in her head.

_“Do you, by chance, have a brother named Bruce?”_, she asked.

_“I sure do!”_, Craig responded.

_“How funny, I think I went to high school prom with him!”_, she said. They were
tickled.

Shortly afterwards, Craig phones Bruce with the funny news. _“You’ll never guess
who I met today”_, he’d have said. A “small world” incident in and of itself, no
doubt. And it could have ended there. Except for that later that day, Bruce
called his and Craig’s other brother, Dwight.

Dwight Fowler. My father.

_“You’ll never guess who Craig ran into at a craft fair today!”_, Bruce might
have said. And then the clincher.

_“Yea, she said Michael gave her son Ben a ride home today. Small world!”_
