---
title: Smells like home
layout: journal
---

Home; we use this word a lot. For all of its vague specificity, home is rarely a
place to which we can assign absolute physicality. Home is my apartment, with
cozy couches and tall windows in the living room that let in beautiful light in
the early hours of the day. Home is the town I grew up in, but it’s also the
city where my parents now live, a place that in turn is home because I spent six
years there during and after college. Home is my face nestled into the shoulder
of my closest friend and home is an apple orchard on fire with the colors of
autumn and home is a booth at your favorite bar on a rainy Friday night. When I
am traveling back to New England I’m traveling home, and when I’m ready to come
back, I’m returning home. Sometimes we feel like we’re _at home_ and other days
like we have _no home_. It is a fickle thing, the notion of home.

Yet I find a comforting permanence in the _smells_ of home. The indistinct notes
of distant memory that take us by surprise on a late night walk home, or strong,
vidid recollections that come to mind as we pass a bakery at dawn. Our physical
homes are often illusive, rife with fluctuation, but a strong scent holds the
power to transport us across great distances and time itself. Smelling the
faintest trace of wood smoke sends me to the living room in the house where I
grew up, lights low and the wood stove bathing the room is pulsing orange. The
spicy sweetness of pumpkin lands me in Vermont, my feet pushing through piles of
crunchy, fallen leaves. Salt on the breeze and the hushed tones of breaking
waves are Tenant’s Harbor, Maine, where I spent a week every summer in
childhood.

If you’re feeling adrift, casting about for a place to call home, find your
favorite smells. They won’t draw you a map bearing directions to your special
place, but they very well may form a constellation with which to orient
yourself.
