---
title: '“Prochaine station…”'
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*Moe3-ZKa2fKUM5SNgPW5bQ.jpeg
  attribution: https://www.flickr.com/photos/fredisonfire/15996115815
---

Montreal, with its brutal winters and expansive underground infrastructure, is
where I lived in the winter and spring of 2009, during the second semester of my
junior year of undergrad. One of my fondest memories of the city is, oddly,
riding public transportation. Even after six years away, I often dream of
hearing _“Prochaine station: Berri-UQAM”_ as the San Francisco trains approach a
stop. Perhaps my affection persists due in part to Montreal being the first
place I lived that _had_ public transportation, by which I mean reliable,
expansive public transportation.

**What I know for certain is that I loved the Metro because I loved the
underground.**

I lived in the UQAM “west residences”, officially the “Résidences de l’Ouest de
l’Uqam”, snuggled between Rue Sherbrooke and Rue Ste-Catherine in what felt like
the heart of the city. Our classes were taught in a building half a mile
north-northwest up Sherbrooke, and at the beginning of the semester, and again
toward the end, the walk was pleasant. About fifteen minutes along the sidewalks
of the bustling thoroughfare, past defiantly juxtaposed styles of architectures
that the city is known for.

Here’s the thing, though: the first time you walk fifteen minutes through a
chill of 30 below zero—with a wind that burns the skin off your cheeks and a
driving snow that tears off what’s left—is the _last_ time you walk through such
conditions. Thus did the underground become our cocoon as we commuted to and
from school.

I would check the weather before leaving my apartment. The forecast would say
“don’t you fucking _dare_ walk outside”. I’d take the elevator to the lobby and
push open the heavy glass door, turning out onto Rue Saint Urbain. Leaving home,
heading to class. I would look intently at the ground, afraid to stare the wind
in the face, hands stuffed into my peacoat and shoulders hunched to my
cheekbones. I would trudge the hundred feet to the next building where I would
open another door. Back inside. Inside all the way to campus, a half mile away.
Buildings connect to buildings; those buildings connect to a Metro line; the
Metro line connects you to other Metro lines which in turn connect you to more
buildings, and so on.

This commute, in the bitter depths of winter, became a joy despite its extended
length. I perceived a camaraderie in these casual daily transits, a mutual
appreciation of the warmth provided by the corridors and trains that moved us
from place to place, shielded from the elements above.
