---
title: The moon over the Bay
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*pll--DW4vaWdcyEbNDGjIg.jpeg
---

Saturday night I took a short walk with friends, crawling out from the bustle of
Chinatown, across Columbus Ave and through the Financial District, emerging onto
the Embarcadero into the midst of ongoing setup for the impending Superbowl,
metal barriers and racks of lights on trailers piled and waiting for their
starring role in next weekend’s festivities.

On our way we stopped through Sue Bierman Park. Unbeknownst to me, this
unassuming park across the street from the Ferry Building is the evening home to
the famed “[Wild Parrots of Telegraph
Hill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wild_Parrots_of_Telegraph_Hill)”. In
daylight, the parrots are wildly visible, bright green with a cherry-red head.
It was dusk, and we could only make out the occasional fleeting silhouette of a
parrot coming or going, but their squeaks and squawks rained down on us in
force.

Standing atop the knoll I could make out a great orb of light through the trees,
beyond the shore, and moments later snapped to the realization that it was the
moon I was seeing. It was *massive *on the horizon, rising up behind the distant
Oakland foothills and bending its light around the Bay Bridge. We started toward
it, drawn as if desert wanderers toward a nebulous oasis. The Embarcadero was
tame as compared to its usual overflowing sidewalks teeming with meandering
tourists. We stood oceanside, at the railing on the northern side of the Ferry
Building, admiring the vast satellite, its luminosity throwing a long ray of
light across the water stretching from the ports of Oakland to the ocean just
below our feet. The moon rose with astounding speed, and by the time we turned
our backs it had visibly diminished, en route to its zenith.

Moments like this, despite their brevity, are crucial to my happiness in a city.
It is the experience of a magician’s rabbit, crawling to the precipice of the
hat it calls home, reminding itself that there is a whole abundance of world
beyond.
