---
title: We drank the wine of coconuts
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*2h4FfmQiD4pH3b1bLxU3TA.png
  attribution: https://www.flickr.com/photos/britishlibrary/11072482355
  caption: Via the British Library collection on Flickr
---

Tell me what comes to mind as you read these next words: types of wine. Red.
White. Zinfandel. Merlot. Rosé. Any more? Maybe you thought of a few others that
I missed.

Except I’ve forgotten one more. _Coconut_. Was that on your list?

And it wouldn’t have been on mine, either, until my trip to Bali earlier this
month. The United States is primarily saturated with grape wines; we think of
corks and the deep _glug glug_ that spills from a bottle as we pour; vast fields
of grape vines in the warm, Napa countryside. Coconuts make the oil that we use
for cooking, or the faintly sweet water we love to drink, or the crunchy flakes
we put on yogurt or in granola. But certainly not wine.

In Bali — and in many places throughout Asia, Africa, South America and the
Caribbeans — palm trees grow in great quantity. While we tend to think of a palm
tree as a unique species, they are actually a family, one that encompasses over
2600 known species of plant life. Of that vast number of species, coconut is
just one.

On my third day in Bali — living in the village of Bresela — my host Wayan told
me he would take me to meet his friend who makes coconut wine. “Do you know it,
coconut wine?”, he asked me. My answer was an emphatic ”No”, as indeed I’d never
heard those two words used together to describe a beverage that one imbibes. And
so into his rice fields we wandered, stopping along the way for him to describe
the process of growing rice, or to explain how each village has a representative
who maintains the delicate, ancient system that delivers water, by gravity
alone, to hundreds of rice fields. The open space through which we walked was
massive, stretching hundreds of acres, containing rice fields owned by at least
as many families in turn. A thin copse of trees, lining the banks of a shallow
depression through which ran a creek, was our destination.

As we neared the edge of the rice fields where the trees began, a small hut was
revealed, nearly hidden in the shade of the foliage, dug into the side of the
hill. Rough hewn boards formed its skeleton and a ridged metal roof sloped
gently away from the fields toward the stream below. A small pen housed two cows
nearby; they munched, looking bored, on the grass cut daily from the maintenance
of the rice fields. From the tiny dwelling emerged the man we’d come to see: the
maker of the elusive coconut wine. Wayan introduced us, and without a shared
language between us we smiled and nodded to each other. His demeanor was one of
a person thoroughly fulfilled by life, happy in his daily existence.

Our arrival marked the beginning of his day’s harvest. Each day at 5:30, Wayan
explained, people walk from their fields all around to come buy his wine. He
only sells it here, and only in the evening. Without further delay, he descended
a worn trail into the small valley, to the base of a coconut tree, a towering
specimen, easily 60 feet in height. Small notches had been cut into the tree at
intervals going up, and with the dexterity and confidence of a monkey on a
jungle gym, the man ascended the full height of the tree in no more than 30
seconds, barefoot and beaming the full duration of his climb.

Coconut wine is gathered by cutting the unopened flowers of a coconut tree and
suspending a container below, allowing the sap to drain out and be caught. The
resulting fluid begins a fermentation process immediately, and within a few
hours yields a sweet, somewhat vinegary, wine with the alcohol content of a
light beer. The resulting beverage is called, in Indonesia, _tuak_, or sometimes
_arak_. Obscured amongst the fronds of the palm, the man removed several
containers in turn, emptying their contents into his collection bottle. Before
re-hanging each container, he used a long knife to shave off the end of the
flower, reopening the gash that would restart the flow of sap.

Our friend descended, now with a single vessel containing the harvest from the
first tree. He repeated this process of collecting sap from three more trees
before meeting us back in the small hut, where he emptied his take into a large
basin, already quite full with the liquid. By this time, about 15 minutes after
our arrival, several more friends of Wayan’s had arrived, and as we sat down
only 10 minutes later, there was a crowd of nearly a dozen.

And so it was that I spent my evening — the hot Balinese sun going down over the
rice fields beyond — in an intimate circle of friends getting buzzed on coconut
wine. We paid by the bottle — ladled out from the basin — and passed around
small tumblers fashioned from bamboo shoots. This was their daily ritual, a
celebration of sorts to end another day of work. I was but a visitor, and I
listened contentedly as they spoke in Balinese around me — Wayan translating
occasionally after an uproarious outburst — feeling honored to have been
included in such a special tradition.
