---
title: Batter up
layout: journal
---

I spent most of my time growing up in Marlborough, Connecticut. In the center of
town, there was an ice cream shop. It’s gone now, but while it thrived, and
while my sister and I were young, it was a frequent destination for our family.
I remember only two things about it, aside from its prominent location on Route
66, adjacent to the town’s only bank, one half of its pizza restaurants, the
lone pharmacy, and a florist.

Firstly, it served a flavor called Rainbow Sherbet. I don’t remember what this
flavor tasted like, but evidently tasty enough for it to remain in my memory to
this day. It was colorful, presumably delicious, and a personal favorite of my
sister and mine.

Secondly, and primarily, there was an arcade machine in the shop. Imagine a
pinball table with only one flipper. There are no bumpers, and the ball drops in
from the top. The surface of the table is a baseball diamond, and the single
flipper is the swinger, up to bat. The ball drops in, you hit it with the
flipper, and depending on where you hit the ball into the “outfield”, you win
cards.

Today, the “cards” you win would likely be virtual, or equate to a lame digital
prize on a website. But this was the mid-1990s, and you won thick-stock,
laminated baseball cards, with up-to-date players and recent stats. While I was
never a serious sports fan—I played many as a kid, and followed hockey for a
while, but nothing more—I loved collecting these cards, and winning them from
the machine was so _easy._

Years later, helping clean out my childhood bedroom for my parent’s move to
Vermont, I would end up discarding all of them.
