---
title: Optimism is a choice
layout: journal
image:
  path: https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*Qqzwfg9A_7rzHTs6fhyLJQ.jpeg
  attribution: https://www.instagram.com/p/BAeIiyhCHF8/
  caption: Photo by Stephen Wyatt Bush
---

Tonight I went out to see some bluegrass. Honest-to-pete bluegrass, with
mandolin, banjo, harmonica and bass fiddle ablaze and feet all around stomping
to the beat. The bands played originals as well as traditional bluegrass, and
some covered Bowie songs in honor of the late idol’s passing. They all played at
a small joint called Driftwood on Folsom Street.

As I first arrived and approached the entrance to the bar, I noticed that the
space was quite full. The bands were playing near the doorway, their backs
visible through the large plate glass windows, and the audience had gathered
around them, facing the street. One person stood outside, a man smoking a
cigarette. He wore a newsboy cap low over his brow and sported a pair of glasses
with perfectly round eyes.

*“Gosh, sure looks crowded in there, huh?”, *I mused out loud.

I stepped back from the entrance to message a friend—inside somewhere—so I could
walk in confidently rather than linger at the doorway in full sight of all
standing around. The smoking man turned to me.

*“Yea, it’s good”, *he said.

I agree, stranger. Say more.

_“People actually came out to see music. Rare these days. People just stay
inside and watch T.V.”._

The smoking man said this with a conviction not warranted by my casual remark.
He didn’t scoff, but the tone of his voice suggested as much. He couldn’t make
eye contact with me, as if my amusement over a packed bar on a Tuesday night was
insulting to the bands and everybody inside. He made his statement and promptly
turned about-face, dragging on his cigarette.

I made my way inside, marveling at the pessimism with which some people approach
life. For the sake of this complete stranger, let me rephrase his words and
present it to you as a keepsake of my night.

**It’s beautiful that people come out for a drink on a Tuesday to support local
musicians. It’s even more beautiful that there are active, young musicians
keeping traditional folk and bluegrass tunes alive. And yes, stranger, it’s
beautiful to approach a small bar on a quiet section of a street and find a bar
nearly overflowing with happy faces.**
