---
title: Keep it for yourself
layout: journal
---

I was out to breakfast with my parents and sister last week when this exchange
happened. Our food arrived at the table and we each eagerly eyed each others
selections: tofu rancheros, french toast with ginger maple butter, a vegan
benedict. Dad took out his phone and snapped a photo of my sister’s plate.

_“Where are you going to post that, Dad? You don’t use Facebook!”_

_“Imagine that”_, I teased. _“A photo for the sake of having the photo”._

She was joking, as was I, but it set me off on the trail of thought I’m
currently walking down.

Social media provides many things, but chiefly among them is validation. It
comes in the form of “likes” and “retweets”, tagged photos, check-ins and
product reviews. It manifests in a thousand little ways. Between Facebook,
Twitter, and Instagram alone, we possess an astounding ability to form a thought
or take a photo, publish it online, and receive nearly instantaneous validation.
The internet, for all its vastness, makes your world feel smaller by helping you
feel wanted or heard, even if by strangers.

I had a five hour car ride back to Vermont today, and was thinking about the
unavoidable feedback you get with posting anything on a social network. Take
this essay, for instance. Conundrum: I want to use the power of the internet to
broadcast something to my peers while eschewing the validation. No “Likes”, no
comments. On Facebook this simply isn’t possible, and intentionally so. The
feedback and social validation is part of the very DNA of a platform like
Facebook.

---

**Why would I, or anybody, wish to avoid the validation provided for free by
sharing something on social media?\*** \*While the answer to this question would
vary widely person-to-person, I have an explanation that makes sense to me, and
it’s to do with intrinsic value.

Intrinsic value, or _intrinsic motivation_, is a concept I first came to know in
college while studying game design. To be intrinsically motivated is to engage
in an activity for the unadulterated, inherent value of that activity. To be
unconcerned with any resulting effects of taking part in that activity to begin
with. The counterpart to an intrinsic activity is an *extrinsic activity, *for
which you take part in for reasons other than your sole enjoyment, or to
instigate a secondary outcome.

There exists both intrinsic and extrinsic motivations when it comes to social
media, but it’s the balance—or imbalance—of the two that is concerning. Though
its effects are subtle, the continual validation provided by social media
becomes addicting, supplying a steady drip of dopamine. There is a real danger
that the need for validation _shifts our motivations for doing an activity or
sharing content in the first place_.

Consider: when you spend five minutes carefully composing a photograph during
your weekend trip, who are you taking the photograph for? Is the intent of a
Facebook status or a tweet simply to share the information, a one-to-many
broadcast, or is it to elicit a response?

The point of asking these questions is not to suggest that intentionally seeking
validation is not worthwhile, but rather to ask whether certain activities are
more enjoyable when driven solely by intrinsic motivations. If we only take
photos for the benefit of others, might we forget the inherent pleasure of
capturing a beautiful moment and saving it just for ourselves or a special
individual? If we write only for others, might we forget the catharsis of
emptying our brain into a journal? _If we are constantly attuned to the aspects
of our lives that we wish to share on the internet, might we unintentionally
overlook entire swaths of our interests that can not be shared in a Facebook
status?_

In a sentence: as social media continues to permeate all the as-yet dim corners
of the modern world, maybe it’d be wise to intentionally recognize that some
things are for our own enjoyment, and not that of our social networks. So take
photos for the memory and don’t share them. Write a novel because you can and
don’t let anybody read it. Do something nice for a stranger and tell nobody.

Keep it for yourself.
