---
title: The single story of manhood
layout: journal
---

I’ve just finished Chimamanda Adichie’s incredible novel _Americanah_, a book
that details with great honesty and unapologetic candor the experience of a
young Nigerian woman, Ifemelu, moving to America. While the characters are
fictional, the issues of gender and race discussed throughout—and how Ifemelu
deals with them—are alternately heartbreaking and uproariously funny.

Immediately after finishing, I watched Adichie’s 2009 TED talk, “The Danger of a
Single Story”. If you have 20 minutes to spare, I encourage you to watch it. It
will inspire, educate and amuse you.

<iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/chimamanda_adichie_the_danger_of_a_single_story" width="100%" height="400" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" webkitAllowFullScreen mozallowfullscreen allowFullScreen></iframe>

The gist of the talk—for those of you unable to watch it at present—is of the
negative consequences of hearing only a “single story” of a group of people.
That group of people, as in Chimamanda’s talk, could be Americans, Africans,
Londoners, women. In the case of Africans, the single story told to Americans is
frequently one of war, sickness and poverty. The reality, of course, is much
more complicated. She says:

> “The single story creates stereotypes, and the problem with stereotypes is not
> that they are untrue, but that they are incomplete. They make one story become
> the only story.”

Lately I’ve been reading a lot of “feminist” writing—and I put the word in
quotes because often “feminist writing” is short for “accounts of the harrowing
experience of being a woman in the world”—and it’s led me to think hard about my
own gender. The root of feminism, after all, is the excessive misogyny of men
that seems nearly built into the foundation of our culture.

As Adichie discusses in her essay “We Should All Be Feminists”—a piece I’m
exceptionally excited to read next week—all too often young girls are given the
“single story” of being a woman, one which can discourage and dishearten when
instead it should bolster and motivate. It set me down a path of thinking
tonight about the equivalent “single story” of manhood. What are the ways in
which I was subconsciously taught, growing up as a boy in the United States, how
to “be a man”? And how does that single story lead to the very misogynistic,
patriarchal culture that mandates a feminist movement to begin with?
