---
title: On the rediscovery of complex writing
layout: journal
---

This weekend I began reading some “scholarly” essays in casual pursuit of
following the curriculum of a college-level anthropology class on gender and
sex. Finishing the first reading, an essay from a 1970s issue of _Feminist
Studies_, I felt my brain struggling to keep up with a style and complexity of
writing that I’m no longer familiar with. As compared to almost any other form
of casual reading—non-fiction, fiction, newspapers, blogs, you name it—academic
writing is _difficult_.

It was an interesting rediscovery of the effect such writing has on your brain.
An almost tangible stretching of the mind. The needing to read certain passages
three, then four times to grasp the intent behind the words. Rather than an easy
skate through creative writing, where you let the characters and imagery of the
scenes carry you to another place, reading difficult scholarly writing feels
more akin to an intelligent commune with the writing, and you find yourself
physically nodding, satisfied when you’ve traced the author’s logic through
multiple pages of thesis and finally arrived at the understanding they intended
to convey.

It struck me how easy it is to evade this type of complex writing entirely in
the current culture. I would wager that popular fiction, magazine writing, and
internet blogs—likely three of the most accessible mediums for reading in the
year 2016—are written at a high school level. Some of the most widely respected
authors of modern history—[Earnest Hemingway, Jane Austen, among
others](https://contently.com/strategist/2015/01/28/this-surprising-reading-level-analysis-will-change-the-way-you-write/)—wrote
at a level comprehensible by elementary school students. After one’s formal
education ends—after undergraduate, for many—it’s unlikely that they would
accidentally encounter writing that requires a reading level above a college
education.

It felt refreshing to read something complex, and I was reminded of a sentiment
expressed by David Foster Wallace during his conversations with David Lipsky. He
expressed his specific intent, with _Infinite Jest_ (but also clearly present in
nearly all of his writing), to provide a reading experience that was hard work
for the reader. He sought, at least in part, to show those of a generation
raised on television and movies—what he’d have called “candy”—that writing can
be complex, almost difficult to read, yet deliver a unique type of satisfaction
from having comprehended it.
