---
title: Hope
layout: journal
---

In 2008, Barack Obama ran for President with the campaign slogan “Hope”. Hope
means a lot of things, and there are many things to hope _for_, but in his
[recent address to the Cuban
people](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-9FqF6eOmro) he gave what could be
considered a definition for a certain type of hope. It’s the type of hope that I
have when I think about not just the future of the United States but of the
whole world.

During a part of the speech where he’s discussing how democracy has enabled a
higher standard of living in the United States, he says:

> But just stop and consider this fact about the American campaign that’s taking
> place right now. You had two Cuban-Americans, in the Republican party, running
> against the legacy of a black man who was President, while arguing that they’re
> the best person to beat the Democratic nominee, who will either be a woman or a
> Democratic Socialist. Who would have believed that back in 1959? That’s a
> measure of our progress as a democracy.

He says this in the context of politics, but it’s not a stretch to interpret it
as a bolder, broader statement about human progress. That in the past 50 years
we’ve made magnificent, measurable improvements in our own understanding of each
other. Whether it’s gay rights or civil rights or women’s rights or trans
rights, we are, even if slowly, getting better at seeing each other as whole
humans. Not to say that we’ve come even remotely close to an acceptable end
state, but Obama’s recognition was a nice reminder of the real progress that
_has_ been made.
